[Merged by Bors] - Addition to Lighthouse Book faq.md (#4273)
sigp/lighthouse: book/src/faqV2.md

# Frequently Asked Questions

## [Beacon Node](#beacon-node-1)

> - [I see warning about "Syncing deposit contract block cache" or error about "updating deposit contract cache", what should I do?](#i-see-warning-about-syncing-deposit-contract-block-cache-or-error-about-updating-deposit-contract-cache-what-should-i-do)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [I see a warning about "Syncing deposit contract block cache" or an error about "updating deposit contract cache", what should I do?](#i-see-a-warning-about-syncing-deposit-contract-block-cache-or-an-error-about-updating-deposit-contract-cache-what-should-i-do)
```

- [I see beacon logs showing `WARN: Execution engine called failed`, what should I do?](#i-see-beacon-logs-showing-warn-execution-engine-called-failed-what-should-i-do)
- [My beacon node is stuck at downloading historical block using checkpoint sync. What should I do?](#my-beacon-node-is-stuck-at-downloading-historical-block-using-checkpoint-sync-what-should-i-do)
- [I proposed a block but the beacon node shows `could not publish message` with error `duplicate` as below, should I be worried?](#i-proposed-a-block-but-the-beacon-node-shows-could-not-publish-message-with-error-duplicate-as-below-should-i-be-worried)

> - [I see beacon node logs `Head is optimistic`, and I am missing attestations. What should I do?](#i-see-beacon-node-logs-head-is-optimistic-and-i-am-missing-attestations-what-should-i-do)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [I see beacon node logs `Head is optimistic` and I am missing attestations. What should I do?](#i-see-beacon-node-logs-head-is-optimistic-and-i-am-missing-attestations-what-should-i-do)
```

- [My beacon node logs `WARN Error processing HTTP API request`, what should I do?](#my-beacon-node-logs-warn-error-processing-http-api-request-what-should-i-do)

## [Validator](#validator-1)
- [Why does it take so long for a validator to be activated?](#why-does-it-take-so-long-for-a-validator-to-be-activated)
- [Can I use redundancy in my staking setup?](#can-i-use-redundancy-in-my-staking-setup)
- [I am missing attestations. Why?](#i-am-missing-attestations-why)
- [Sometimes I miss the attestation head vote, resulting in penalty. Is this normal?](#sometimes-i-miss-the-attestation-head-vote-resulting-in-penalty-is-this-normal)
- [Can I submit a voluntary exit message without a beacon node?](#can-i-submit-a-voluntary-exit-message-without-running-a-beacon-node)
- [Does increasing the number of validators increase the CPU and other computer resources used?](#does-increasing-the-number-of-validators-increase-the-cpu-and-other-computer-resources-used)
- [I want to add new validators. Do I have to reimport the existing keys?](#i-want-to-add-new-validators-do-i-have-to-reimport-the-existing-keys)

> - [Do I have to stop `lighthouse vc` when import new validator keys?](#do-i-have-to-stop-lighthouse-vc-when-import-new-validator-keys)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Do I have to stop `lighthouse vc` the when importing new validator keys?](#do-i-have-to-stop-lighthouse-vc-when-importing-new-validator-keys)
```

- [My beacon node and validator client are on different servers. How can I point the validator client to the beacon node?](#my-beacon-node-and-validator-client-are-on-different-servers-how-can-i-point-the-validator-client-to-the-beacon-node)
- [Should I do anything to the beacon node or validator client settings if I have a relocation of the node / change of IP address?](#should-i-do-anything-to-the-beacon-node-or-validator-client-settings-if-i-have-a-relocation-of-the-node--change-of-ip-address)

## [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-1)
- [What should I do if I lose my slashing protection database?](#what-should-i-do-if-i-lose-my-slashing-protection-database)
- [I can't compile lighthouse](#i-cant-compile-lighthouse)
- [How do I check the version of Lighthouse that is running?](#how-do-i-check-the-version-of-lighthouse-that-is-running)
- [Does Lighthouse have pruning function like the execution client to save disk space?](#does-lighthouse-have-pruning-function-like-the-execution-client-to-save-disk-space)
- [Can I use a HDD for the freezer database and only have the hot db on SSD?](#can-i-use-a-hdd-for-the-freezer-database-and-only-have-the-hot-db-on-ssd)

## Beacon Node

> ### I see warning about "Syncing deposit contract block cache" or error about "updating deposit contract cache", what should I do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### I see a warning about "Syncing deposit contract block cache" or an error about "updating deposit contract cache", what should I do?
```

### I see beacon node logs `Head is optimistic`, and I am missing attestations. What should I do?

The log looks like:

```
WARN Head is optimistic       execution_block_hash: 0x47e7555f1d4215d1ad409b1ac188b008fcb286ed8f38d3a5e8078a0af6cbd6e1, info: chain not fully verified, block and attestation production disabled until execution engine syncs, service: slot_notifier
```

It means the beacon node will follow the chain, but it will not be able to attest or produce blocks. This is because the execution client is not synced, so the beacon chain cannot verify the authenticity of the chain head, hence the word `optimistic`. What you need to do is to make sure that the execution client is up and syncing. Once the execution client is synced, the error will disappear.

### My beacon node logs `CRIT Beacon block processing error error: ValidatorPubkeyCacheLockTimeout, service: beacon`, what should I do? 

An example of the log is shown below:

```
CRIT Beacon block processing error           error: ValidatorPubkeyCacheLockTimeout, service: beacon
WARN BlockProcessingFailure                  outcome: ValidatorPubkeyCacheLockTimeout, msg: unexpected condition in processing block.
```

> A `Timeout` error suggests that the computer may be overloading at the moment, for example, the execution client is still syncing. You may use the flag `--disable-lock-timeouts` to silence this error, although it will not fix the underlying slowness. Nevertheless, this is a relatively harmless log, and the error should go away once the resources used are back to normal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Timeout` error suggests that the computer may be overloaded at the moment, for example, the execution client is still syncing. You may use the flag `--disable-lock-timeouts` to silence this error, although it will not fix the underlying slowness. Nevertheless, this is a relatively harmless log, and the error should go away once the resources used are back to normal. 
```

### My beacon node logs `WARN BlockProcessingFailure outcome: MissingBeaconBlock`, what should I do?

An example of the full log is shown below:

```
WARN BlockProcessingFailure                  outcome: MissingBeaconBlock(0xbdba211f8d72029554e405d8e4906690dca807d1d7b1bc8c9b88d7970f1648bc), msg: unexpected condition in processing block.
```

> `MissingBeaconBlock` suggests that the database has corrupted. You should wide the database and use [Checkpoint Sync](./checkpoint-sync.md) to resync the beacon chain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MissingBeaconBlock` suggests that the database has corrupted. You should wipe the database and use [Checkpoint Sync](./checkpoint-sync.md) to resync the beacon chain. 
```

### After checkpoint sync, the progress of `downloading historical blocks` is slow. Why?

> This is a normal behaviour. Since [v4.1.0](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/releases/tag/v4.1.0), Lighthouse implements rate-limited backfill sync to mitigate validator performance issues after a checkpoint sync. This is not something to worry because backfill sync / historical data is not required for staking. However, if you opt to sync the chain as fast as possible, you can add the flag `--disable-backfill-rate-limiting` to the beacon node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a normal behaviour. Since [v4.1.0](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/releases/tag/v4.1.0), Lighthouse implements rate-limited backfill sync to mitigate validator performance issues after a checkpoint sync. This is not something to worry about since backfill sync / historical data is not required for staking. However, if you opt to sync the chain as fast as possible, you can add the flag `--disable-backfill-rate-limiting` to the beacon node.
```

### My beacon node logs `WARN Error processing HTTP API request`, what should I do?

This warning usually comes with an http error code. Some examples are given below:

> 1. The log show:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The log shows:
```

```
WARN Error processing HTTP API request       method: GET, path: /eth/v1/validator/attestation_data, status: 500 Internal Server Error, elapsed: 305.65µs
```

The error is `500 Internal Server Error`. This suggests that the execution client is not synced. Once the execution client is synced, the error will disappear.

> 2. The log show:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The log shows:
```

```
WARN Error processing HTTP API request       method: POST, path: /eth/v1/validator/duties/attester/199565, status: 503 Service Unavailable, elapsed: 96.787µs
```

The error is `503 Service Unavailable`. This means that the beacon node is still syncing. When this happens, the validator client will log:

```
ERRO Failed to download attester duties      err: FailedToDownloadAttesters("Some endpoints failed, num_failed: 2 http://localhost:5052/ => Unavailable(NotSynced), http://localhost:5052/ => RequestFailed(ServerMessage(ErrorMessage { code: 503, message: \"SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE: beacon node is syncing
```

> This means that the validator client is sending requests to the beacon node. However, because the beacon node is still syncing, hence it is unable to fulfil the request. The error will disappear once the beacon node is synced. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the validator client is sending requests to the beacon node. However the beacon node is still syncing is therefore unable to fulfil the request. The error will disappear once the beacon node is synced. 
```

produce blocks and attestations!

### Can I use redundancy in my staking setup?

You should **never** use duplicate/redundant validator keypairs or validator clients (i.e., don't
duplicate your JSON keystores and don't run `lighthouse vc` twice). This will lead to slashing.

However, there are some components which can be configured with redundancy. See the
[Redundancy](./redundancy.md) guide for more information.

### I am missing attestations. Why? 
The first thing is to ensure both consensus and execution clients are synced with the network. If they are synced, there may still be some issues with the node setup itself that is causing the missed attestations. Check the setup to ensure that:
- the clock is synced
- the computer has sufficient resources and is not overloaded
- the internet is working well
- you have sufficient peers

You can see more information on the [Ethstaker KB](https://ethstaker.gitbook.io/ethstaker-knowledge-base/help/missed-attestations). Once the above points are good, missing attestation should be a rare occurrence. 

### Sometimes I miss the attestation head vote, resulting in penalty. Is this normal?

> In general, it is unavoidable to have some penalties occasionally. This is particularly the case when you are assigned to attest on the first slot of an epoch and if the proposer of that slot releases the block late, then you will get penalised for missing the target and head votes. Your attestation performance does not only depend on your own setup, but also on everyone else's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, it is unavoidable to have some penalties occasionally. This is particularly the case when you are assigned to attest on the first slot of an epoch and if the proposer of that slot releases the block late, then you will get penalised for missing the target and head votes. Your attestation performance does not only depend on your own setup, but also on everyone elses performance.
```

### Does increasing the number of validators increase the CPU and other computer resources used?

A computer with hardware specifications stated in the [Recommended System Requirements](./installation.md#recommended-system-requirements) can run hundreds validators with only marginal increase in cpu usage. When validators are active, there is a bit of an increase in resources used from validators 0-64, because you end up subscribed to more subnets. After that, the increase in resources plateaus when the number of validators go from 64 to ~500.

### I want to add new validators. Do I have to reimport the existing keys?

No. You can just import new validator keys to the destination directory. If the `validator_keys` folder contains existing keys, that's fine as well because Lighthouse will skip importing existing keys.

> ### Do I have to stop `lighthouse vc` when import new validator keys?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Do I have to stop `lighthouse vc` when importing new validator keys?
```
